---
layout: post
title:  "AWS Lambda"
date:   2018-11-21 11:23:58 +0100
categories: aws lambda cloud computing
---

# AWS Lambda

As a part of our project, we decided to deploy our Golang code to the cloud computing platform **Amazon Web Services (AWS)**.

We made this choice because AWS is relatively easy to use, and is basically free for students.

## What is AWS

Amazon Web Services (or simply AWS) is a platform of cloud computing created by Amazon. It provide a great number of services, such as compute power (virtual machines), file storage, domain hosting, machine learning, web application hosting, etc ... The basic premise of AWS is that you pay for what you use and only what you use. It is available in most regions of the world.


## What is AWS Lambda

**AWS Lambda** is a service provided by AWS. It is *FaaS*, Function as a Service. The core concept is that you upload your code to the service, and you let AWS manage the servers required to run the code. 

This is called **serverless architecture**, because the user doesn't have to manage the servers that run his code. 

In AWS Lambda, you create Lambda Functions, which are pieces of code that react to events. 

An event is generally related to the cloud platform the function is hosted on: for instance, you can trigger a Lambda function any time a file is uploaded to a storage service

```go
func handler(context lambda.Context, event lambda.S3Event) {
    fmt.Println("The uploaded file is ", event.fileName)
}
```

In the above code, the Lambda is triggered when a file is uploaded to S3 (AWS Simple Storage Service), and prints the name of the file.


*Made by Thierry*
